Good afternoon, everyone.
I'd like to welcome you to session 118,
which is ColorSync.
Again, I'm Travis Brown.
I'm the Mac OS X imaging
technology manager,
and I'll be being assisted by
the ColorSync engineering team.
ColorSync has a new role in Mac OS X,
and what's important to note
is that it's fundamentally
integrated in the operating system.
And this is a different story
from ColorSync on previous
versions of the Mac OS,
where it was an optional extension.
In fact, many users who were not maybe in
the professional publishing space
never even bothered to install it
or never even knew what it did.
Well, Mac OS X takes the opportunity to
integrate ColorSync because color
and color management is very,
very important to a customer experience,
whether it be a high-end publishing
customer or even someone using,
let's say,
a digital camera and trying to look at
an image on screen and then print it.
For that reason,
Quartz takes advantage of
ColorSync in great detail.
Additionally,
it's used throughout the print
path to provide color-matching
services for printer drivers as well.
Because of this,
I want to bracket the sort of
content for today's session.
We're going to aim some of the
content at developers who maybe
have never used ColorSync or
even may be aware of ColorSync.
So we're going to start with
an overview of ColorSync.
And then we're going to drop
down into a fairly detailed
discussion of how ColorSync and
Quartz interreact to provide a
color-managed experience on Mac OS X.
Then we're going to come back up a
level and talk about profiles and CMMs.
This will be familiar to developers
who are used to developing with the
ColorSync APIs on Mac OS X and earlier.
And then one thing we think is very
important is since all applications
can share in the color-managed workflow
that exists within any Mac OS X system,
we feel it's important for developers to
take advantage of the preference systems,
the preference APIs that
are available in Mac OS X,
for you to figure out what the
user wants in terms of color.
This is something that is going to be
very important because you could have,
for example, a designer who maybe
creates content for the web.
And therefore,
they want their primary RGB color
space to be maybe something like sRGB.
And it's very important for application
developers to learn how to pick
that information up from the system.
Then we'll also talk about
device integration where you can
associate profiles with devices
that are available on the computer.
And then we'll conclude
with a question and answer.
So what I want to do now is turn
things over to David Hayward
who's going to tell you more,
give you an overview of ColorSync.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Thanks for coming.
Again, I want to start out today talking
about a general overview of ColorSync.
For those of you in the audience who may
not be familiar with color management
in general or ColorSync in particular,
First thing to be aware of
is what is the problem that
ColorSync is trying to solve?
Well, as we're all aware,
there's a wide variety of devices
that we all work with these days.
Some of them such as flatbed scanners,
digital cameras, LCD displays,
tube displays, toner printers,
inkjet printers.
All of these devices
represent colors in very,
very different ways.
They have different color spaces
and also they have different gamuts,
which is a term for the range of
colors that a device can represent.
So this is the problem that makes it
very difficult for a document that's
acquired from one device to be rendered
correctly on another device or in a
printer or a different kind of printer.
The solution is ColorSync,
which is an established solution
that provides a complete
color management solution,
which is designed to provide consistent
color across a wide variety of devices.
Even more than that, though,
ColorSync can also be used to do color
management or color transformations that
are not even associated with devices.
Such as hue rotation or
contrast enhancement.
But for most of the subject
we'll be talking about today,
you can think of ColorSync as a
way of transforming colors from one
source device to a destination device.
So that's the problem and the solution.
The two key foundations upon which
ColorSync are built are ICC profiles
and color management modules,
or CMMs.
I want to talk in a little bit more
detail about these two key ingredients.
First of all, ICC profiles.
The ICC profile is a cross-platform
file format defined by the
International Color Consortium,
or ICC, which is made up of members
from 70 different companies.
You can find out more information
about them from their website,
which is www.color.org.
The idea behind the profile format
is it's a document that contains
data that describes how to transform
between device color space and
an intermediate color space,
or PCS,
which is the term that the ICC promotes.
Now,
this file format allows for description
of a wide variety of devices,
but also encompasses several
standard color spaces,
which you may have worked with,
such as sRGB, NTSC, et cetera.
The data that's contained in the profile,
to a certain extent,
implies a certain processing model,
but it's also flexible and open.
The profile format can be
extended by optional tags,
which vendors can take advantage
of in order to provide specific
solutions for their customers.
Also, the ICC profile format
is an evolving format.
It's ongoing improvements
are being made to it.
I'll be talking more about that
later when we talk about the ICC4
profile format that's on the horizon.
So if you think of profiles as the data
that are used for color management,
CMMs are the code.
And the CMM, or Color Management Module,
provides the mathematical engine
to perform profile-to-profile
transformations.
There's a default CMM that
Apple ships as part of ColorSync,
which is the Apple CMM.
And this is the same CMM that we
ship on Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X.
However, again, we've designed the system
to be open and expandable.
Third parties can add their own CMMs if
they want to provide their own alternate
methods for doing color transformations,
and several have been provided in the
past by a wide variety of vendors.
So this is a classic diagram
to show how ColorSync fits
into the Mac OS X architecture.
At the top,
you have the familiar purple boxes
for Carbon and Cocoa applications.
These applications can call ColorSync
either directly or indirectly by
going through other APIs such as
QuickDraw and Quartz rendering system.
ColorSync can then dynamically
call CMMs as needed,
either using the Apple CMM or
third-party CMMs,
and all of this system is based upon the
Darwin Foundation provided in Mac OS X.
So that's sort of the
architectural overview.
Here's a diagram that I wanted to
add to give an idea of how color
management is actually used in practice,
for those of you who are not aware.
The idea is, again,
you have an application at the top,
which is using ColorSync
either indirectly or directly.
And what the document wants to do,
or the application wants to do,
is to render a document correctly.
That document, let's say, for example,
it comes from a digital camera.
The document may contain a profile
embedded with it that describes
that device's color space.
Or it's also possible,
if that profile doesn't
contain a profile,
to obtain a correct
profile for that device.
Given a correct profile for that device,
we now know how to correctly
understand the colors that are
represented within that document.
Without a profile,
those values are just values we don't
know how to correctly interpret them.
Now, if we want to render this
image correctly on the display,
then we need a destination profile.
In this case, we need to obtain the
profile for the display.
Once we have a source
and destination profile,
now we can match the pixel data
from the source or camera profile
to the destination or display
profile in order to provide the most
faithful reproduction of that source
image on that destination device.
The story when it comes time
to print is very similar.
Again, you need a destination profile.
In this case,
we can obtain a profile from the printer.
And again,
we can now match from the source
to the destination printer profile
in order to provide the best,
most faithful representation of
the image across to print time.
And lastly, just a little bit of a
history lesson of ColorSync.
ColorSync started back in 1993
in version 1.0 and has grown and
become more and more established
along the way to version 3.1,
which ships today as part of Mac OS X.
So it's been an exciting
project to be involved with.
The ColorSync 2.0 and greater API,
which many of you who are familiar
with using ColorSync on Mac OS 9,
is fully supported on Mac OS X,
which means that it should be very,
very easy for you to port your
applications that are using
ColorSync today to Mac OS X.
That being said,
there are also some new API and
new functionality provided
for ColorSync on Mac OS X,
which will provide some new enhancements
which you may want to take advantage of.
And also, what's very,
very important is that Quartz
and the printing model on
Mac OS X make full use of ColorSync,
which provides a good segue for
me to pass off to Luke Wallis,
who will be talking about
ColorSync and Quartz.
Thanks.
Thank you, David.
As you just learned,
ColorSync API on Mac OS X is
fully implemented.
It covers completely the
ColorSync API on Mac OS 9.
It includes some new features,
and it's available for all
applications that want to use it.
In Mac OS X, however,
ColorSync was assigned a new role.
Besides the standard application
services similar to those on Mac OS 9,
ColorSync is now also used
to provide color management
to other system components.
One of those components is Quartz,
our new graphics system based
on the PDF imaging model.
I would like to show you how
ColorSync is used in Quartz.
As you are going to see,
Quartz created a new paradigm
for color management,
which offers an alternative
access to ColorSync functionality.
And if I wanted to be very
specific about the topic,
I would rephrase it as ColorSync
and Quartz Color Management.
The objective for the Quartz color
management was to integrate graphics
and color management services,
satisfying some basic requirements.
First of all,
Quartz needed an ability to composite
different color spaces and opacity.
To meet this requirement,
ColorSync is used to convert data
from many different color spaces
into the one selected by Quartz as
a working space for compositing.
The second requirement is focused
on the needs of developers.
It comes from the fact that all
applications using Quartz will
have to work with color management.
A scalable solution,
which is implemented in Quartz,
should serve the needs of a
wide range of applications.
On one end,
the involvement of an application
in color management can be very
minimal and just limited to the
use of some predefined default
settings provided by Quartz.
But on the other end,
an application will have the same
full control over color management
as in accessing ColorSync directly.
[Transcript missing]
In simple terms,
quartz color management could be
described as built around ColorSync,
which is used as an engine to process
PDF color data produced by quartz.
But in order to better
understand its design,
let's review some of the basic concepts
pertaining to color in PDF and ColorSync.
In PDF, color is defined by one
of the known color spaces:
device, calibrated, or ICC-based.
As you can see,
this list reflects in essence
the history of color management.
Initially,
only device color spaces were supported.
As we can say from today's perspective,
those merely provided a classification
of different process color models.
And because the color
appearance is device-dependent,
these spaces are, as a matter of fact,
the worst choice for the fateful color
reproduction across different devices.
Next, calibrated color was invented,
along with the idea of color conversions
through device-independent color.
The advantage of this method is a
significant improvement in color
matching across different devices.
PDF follows that by adding
calibrated color spaces.
Later on,
calibrated color evolved into the
standard form that we here in this
crowd are quite familiar with,
and this standard form
is the ICC profile.
When the color management based on
ICC profiles gained its popularity
and became the de facto standard
among color professionals,
PDF added ICC-based color space,
which allows for embedding
ICC profiles in PDF documents.
PDF color conversions could be described
as a function of source color space,
destination color space,
and rendering intent.
Please take note of the rendering
intent values in PDF as they
will refer to the next slide.
Let's take a look now how ColorSync and
ICC define color and color conversions.
Naturally,
Color is defined by an ICC profile.
As I mentioned a moment ago,
the ICC profile is, in practice,
the most general form of
the color space description.
ICC color conversions are basically
very similar to those in PDF.
The difference is an option for
inserting the intermediate profiles
between the source and destination.
These additional profiles are
used in advanced color management
for things like soft proofing,
color device simulation,
applying special effects, etc.
As we can see now,
the rendering intent values in ICC are
exactly the same as those in PDF.
The color model in Quartz was created
by integrating PDF and ICC color models.
Let's review some of the most
important features of this model.
First of all,
all PDF color spaces are expressed
in Quartz as ICC profiles.
Device color spaces are
assigned default profiles.
Calibrated color spaces
contain the calibration record,
which can be very easily
repackaged as the ICC profile.
And finally,
ICC-based color spaces provide
their own ICC profiles.
Another simple but very important
concept that Quartz inherited from
PDF is color space equivalence.
An implied rule is that color conversions
are necessary only if the source color
space is different from the destination.
Quartz takes advantage of this
simple rule to properly organize
the flow of color data through
multiple rendering stages.
As I mentioned,
all PDF color spaces are expressed
in Quartz and ICC profile in
the manner which is seamless and
transparent to all applications
working in the PDF imaging model.
But at the same time,
we needed provision in Quartz
to create color transformations
from more than two profiles.
For that reason,
we designed a color space which can
consist of one or more ICC profiles.
This way, we are able to preserve the
PDF concept of matching a single
source to a single destination.
But at the same time,
we are able to create those complex
color transformations which are
suitable for advanced color management.
And if the need arises for such a
color space to be embedded in PDF,
the multiple profiles contained
in such a color space will be
able to be embedded in PDF.
space can be concatenated by
color syncing to a single profile.
For the completeness,
it's worth mentioning that Quartz
can also encompass implicit
device conversions as defined
in PDF by proper configuration
of the default color spaces.
Here is an example of a configuration
handling device gray to device RGB and
device CMYK to device RGB conversions.
Let's see now how all the things
I was talking about come together to
provide the desired color processing
in the Quartz drawing model.
From the top-level perspective,
there are three main components
involved in this model:
an application generating
the graphic contents,
Quartz providing the rendering services,
and the destination for
the rasterized data.
In terms of color processing,
the application can request
cords to render data in any
of the PDF color spaces.
To accomplish that,
Quartz will convert all
these into ICC profiles.
The default profiles
are selected by Quartz,
but can be overloaded by the application.
Quartz will do all compositing
in the working space.
And ColorSync will be invoked to perform
color transformations from any of the
source color spaces to the working space.
And finally,
when compositing is completed,
the rasterized data will be
sent to the desired destination.
Naturally,
if the color space of the destination
doesn't match the working space,
an additional conversion must
be done between the working
space and the destination.
Here is an example of quartz
color management usage.
An application creates contents
in the device RGB color space.
After being rendered,
that content should be
displayed on the primary monitor
without any color conversions.
From the color management point of view,
we can classify this case as
are creating and rendering the
data in the same color space.
This case can be a typical case of a
very simple application which doesn't
have any color management capabilities.
If that were the old system and
the application opened a file
which contained data in different
color spaces than device RGB,
then the application itself would have to
convert the data to the system profile.
Otherwise,
displaying such data would cause
the color errors or perhaps
would be even possible at all.
Let's see what happens in Quartz
if the application didn't do
anything about converting color and
pass the data directly to Quartz.
As you have seen,
all conversions happened
correctly in Quartz,
and the data from different
color spaces is converted
properly to the primary display.
As a matter of fact,
this configuration is a predefined
default setting used by Quartz.
The same configuration could be used
by the advanced color applications,
which would like to use Quartz only for
rendering without any color conversions.
Obviously, many other combinations
are also possible here.
Let me show you now how convenient
quartz color management can be
for some other color operations.
For example,
applying special effects to all
data can be very easily achieved
by simply adding the abstract
profile to the working space.
As you can see,
all conversions to the working space
will include the transformation
defined in the abstract profile.
Another example could be soft proofing.
The only thing we need to do is to add
the printer profile to the working space.
And this way,
all color corrections defined in the
printer profile will be reflected in
the working space and consequently
shown on the primary display.
The use of multi-profile color spaces
is not limited to quasi-internals.
An application also could use it.
Here is an example of an application
using this kind of color space to create
some kind of free transform color space
for some additional color effects.
To complete my story about
color management in Quartz,
let me tell you how color is
handled in printing from Quartz.
So far, I was talking about the main
flow of the color data from
the source to destination.
But one more step is possible here.
The contents can be spooled
in the PDF form for printing,
which will be handled
by the print center.
There is one very important
fact about the spooled data.
As I pointed out here,
all color data is tagged in spooled PDF,
and all end profiles are assigned
to the data exactly the same way as
they were for ColorSync processing.
Quartz is also used to rasterize this
pooled PDF at the printing backend.
From the color management perspective,
we have a few options here.
The first one is to use
ColorSync for color matching.
In this case,
the working space is created from
a printer profile and a special
kind of working space profile.
This working space profile has
a gamut large enough to contain
the gamut of the printer profile,
but at the same time has all the features
needed by Quartz for compositing.
The reason for adding the printer
profile is to assure that all data
tagged with different rendering intents
in the spooled PDF will be rendered
according to the corresponding tags
contained in the printer profile.
When the rendering is completed,
the PrintJobManager will convert
the data from the working
space to the printer profile.
Another option is custom
driver color matching.
By assumption,
our goal here is to provide
the best WYSIWYG experience.
For that reason,
the color data by design is
going to be handed off in the
system profile color space.
For that reason, working space is set
to the system profile.
As a result,
all data which is tagged with system
profiles will remain untouched.
and obviously all other color
data will be converted by
ColorSync to the system profile.
ColorSync is also involved
in PostScript backend.
From the color management perspective,
our goal here is to convert
the color spaces containing the
spooled PDF to PostScript CSAs.
For those of you who are not familiar
with the term of PostScript CSA,
let me briefly explain that
CSA stands for color space array,
and it is used in PostScript the same way
for containing the calibration record as
calibrated spaces in PDF or ICC profiles.
Quartz has internal capabilities
to convert PDF calibrated color
spaces directly to PostScript CSAs.
All ICC profiles will be converted
to PostScript CSAs using ColorSync.
And this concludes my talk
on Quartz and ColorSync.
So now I'll pass it back to David.
Thank you for your attention.
Thanks, Luke.
So after that detailed discussion,
I want to go back and go into
a little bit more detail on the
subject of ColorSync profiles
and how they work on Mac OS X.
As you may be aware from Mac OS 9,
profiles are traditionally stored in the
Profiles folder within the System folder.
If an application wanted to
get access to that folder,
it would use the ColorSync
API cm get ColorSyncFolderSpec,
passing in for the vrefnum
constant kSystemDisk,
or I forget the other constants
that were equivalent to that.
But the idea behind it is that
would give you the location of
the ColorSyncProfiles folder.
You could also use find folder,
which is an equivalent API.
However, on Mac OS X,
one of the key features in Mac OS X is
that it's designed from the get-go
to be multi-user and network savvy.
And for this reason,
there's no longer just one location
where profiles can be installed.
So now there's several locations.
First of all, there's a special location
inside the system folder,
which is system, library, ColorSync,
profiles.
And this is where ColorSync
stores a few profiles that it
needs for critical operations,
which it needs even if all the other
profiles were to be trashed by users,
they could--ColorSync could
still work with just these few
profiles to a limited extent.
This profiles folder is
locked and protected,
but if you need to get access to be able
to read the profiles in this directory,
you can get access to this
location by--still by calling
CM get ColorSync folder spec,
but instead you can pass in k system
domain for the vrefnum parameter.
The main place where profiles are
stored is in library ColorSync profiles.
This is where we ship the
majority of our profiles.
This location is actually
read and writable by users,
so your application or users can
install profiles in here as well.
If you need to get
access to this location,
you can pass in Klocal domain
for the read VREFNUM constant.
If you're in a network environment and
your administrator has installed profiles
on the network for your network devices,
these can be installed in
the standard location network
library ColorSync profiles.
You can get access to this by
passing in Knetwork domain.
Lastly,
users can install their own personal
profiles within their home directory,
which is in the Unix Parlance
Tilda library ColorSync profiles.
And as on Mac OS 9,
ColorSync also supports looking in
subfolders of all of these directories,
or aliases to folders,
or aliases to profiles.
So the end-all situation we have
here is there's a lot of locations
where profiles can be stored.
So what this means is it's
probably more important than ever.
If you're an application and you
want to present a pop-up menu
that shows a list of profiles
that are installed to the user,
you really want to use the
CM Iterate ColorSync Folder API.
This API will quickly call a
callback proc for every profile
that is installed in the system.
In addition to simplifying your code from
having to deal with all these locations,
it also has performance
benefits in that it caches the
frequently needed information.
One caveat to mention, however,
is if you're running Mac OS X and you
have a classic system folder set up,
ColorSync will not automatically
search in the classic system
folder's profiles directory.
However, if your application wants to get
access at this location to show
those profiles to your user,
you can easily do that by again
calling CM_GetColorSyncFolderSpec,
and this time you can pass
in the k classic domain.
So that's a lot of directories, I know,
and it's one of the more
common questions we have is,
quite simply,
where do I install my profiles?
And the short answer to the question is,
applications should install
profiles in library ColorSync
profiles or in a subfolder of it.
That being said,
users can install profiles if they
wish in their own home directory.
So what does it mean to be a profile?
Well, traditionally,
profiles were filtered based on
their type and creator on Mac OS 9.
The type was prof,
and the creator was sync.
But in actuality,
that's not all that important,
because profiles actually come
from a variety of sources,
and they may not have types and creators.
So ColorSync no longer checks
the type and creator of profiles.
Also, profiles need not have any suffix,
or they may have any suffix.
It doesn't matter.
But if you are going to have a suffix,
we request that you use .icc.
By standardizing on one suffix,
it makes it easier for
applications that are using the
Cocoa NS Open Panel to filter profiles.
For the same reason, if you are going to
use a type and creator,
we'd recommend you use profsync,
because that'll make it easier
for applications that are
using the Carbon Navigation
Services to filter profiles.
But at its heart,
ColorSync doesn't care about type,
creator, or suffix.
It'll just make life
easier for your users.
What really matters that distinguishes a
profile from any other file on your disk
is that it have the valid ICC profile.
And one quick way of determining
that is if there's an appropriate
offset within the header,
there's a signature bytes.
Which are ACSP.
ColorSync Profile,
I believe it stands for.
And that's what really matters,
and that's what ColorSync uses to
determine if a file is a profile.
We also impose the additional
restriction that the profile have
a valid description tag in it.
Because we realize in actual practice,
a lot of applications put up pop-up
menus or scrolling lists with profiles.
And if a profile has a bad name in it,
it can either be rendered as
garbage or cause other problems.
So in order to avoid this problem,
it's more important than ever to
use the Profile First Aid ColorSync
utility to make sure that the
profiles that your application ships
or creates are free of common errors.
I'll show that a little bit later.
Also, another one of the key features
of Mac OS X is that it's,
for the first time,
it's a multi-localized operating system,
which means that a given
CD of Mac OS X contains
multiple languages on it.
We wanted to provide that same
functionality for ICC profiles,
which previously did
not have this support.
So we defined a new optional
tag type of type MLUC,
which stands for
multi-localized Unicode string.
And this tag, you can think of it as
containing a list of a string,
be it the name of the
profile or whatever,
which has been localized for
multiple language and regions.
We've also provided an easy
API for you to access this data.
That's turned out to
be tricky in the past.
So first off,
there's the API CM copy profile
localized string dictionary.
And what this API does is allow
you to get a CFDictionary which
contains the language locale and
string for multiple localizations.
And it'll return that to you from
a specific tag of a given profile.
Similarly, there's a CM Set Profile
localized string dictionary,
which allows you to write
a dictionary of localized
strings into a tag of a profile.
In more typical practice, however,
your application just wants to get
one specific name out of a profile.
And for that, we have an API,
CM Copy Profile Localized String,
which you give it a profile, a tag,
a requested language and region,
and then it will return to
you the actual language and
region and the actual string.
Here's an example of it being used
in practice at the bottom here.
It is a CM Copy Profile Localized String.
We pass in the prof, the DSCM tag,
which is the optional tag
where this might be stored.
And then, in this case,
the application is looking to see
a US English string being returned.
If that profile does not
contain a US English string,
it will try to return an English string.
If it doesn't do that,
it will fall back to
a reasonable default.
Another typical usage of this API is
if your application doesn't even
care what language is being returned,
you can pass in nil where
the EN-US is passed in here.
In this situation,
which is very simple to call,
the ColorSync will automatically return
the best language in the profile,
given the user's current
preferred language settings.
So, while still talking about profiles,
I want to talk for a
bit about ICC profiles,
which is an important change
that's on the horizon.
The ICC Consortium has been
working long and hard on a new
format for profiles in order to
provide more flexibility and power,
and they're calling it
ICC version 4.0 profiles.
I don't want to go into all
the details of the changes.
You can probably get information
on that in more detail on the web,
but I just want to give you a
few highlights of the changes
and what to be aware of.
First off,
there's obviously a new version
field in the header of the profile,
so that you can tell whether
a profile is a version for a
profile or an earlier version.
Also, there's an MD5, or Message Digest,
checksum within the profile header,
which is a very useful feature if your
application wants to be able to tell
if two profiles are identical or not,
or to tell if a profile
has changed over time.
You can either access this MD5
checksum directly from the header,
16-byte value,
or you can also use the ColorSync API,
cm-get-profile-md5.
The ColorSync API has the advantage
that it works on both ICC4
profiles and earlier profiles,
which don't have it
embedded in the header.
There's also some new tag data types,
which are really where the
new power and flexibility come
with ICC version 4 profiles.
For one thing,
they've standardized on the MLUC,
or multi-localized Unicode tag,
which I spoke about
in the previous slide.
But also, there's some new
multi-dimensional transform tags,
or multi-purpose transfer tags,
MBA and MAB, that provide a lot of
power to profile creators.
The important thing to be aware
of is that some of your existing
tags that you're used to reading
may contain the new data formats,
whereas before it contained
the old data format.
So, for example,
if you were to look in the
A to B0 tag of a profile,
traditionally that used to contain
either the MFT1 or MFT2 tag types.
But starting with ICC version 4,
that data may actually be of
a completely different type,
which is the MBA or MAB tag.
So, the good news is that
ColorSync and AppleSync...
...will be fully ICC 4 savvy.
Which means that if your application
doesn't do any parsing of profiles,
and all it does is open profile
references and does color
management using those references,
or uses ColorSync
indirectly through Quartz,
then everything will work perfectly.
However,
if your application is in the business of
creating profiles or modifying profiles,
you need to be aware of these
new tag types and make sure that
you handle those cases correctly.
So I want to go into a little bit more
detail on CMMs on Mac OS X as well.
Like with profiles,
CMMs can also be installed
in multiple locations.
The typical location if an application
wanted to install a profile would
be in library ColorSync CMMs.
I don't know if you've noticed the
sort of family here is that a lot of
the ColorSync stuff is stored within
some library ColorSync directory.
So in this case,
it's library ColorSync CMMs.
Also, a user,
if they had a CMM that they wanted to use
just personally but didn't want to force
everyone on that machine to use that CMM,
they can have a personal CMM installed,
which is a great way to debug CMMs,
by the way, installing it in tilde
library ColorSync CMMs.
So what this means is that if you have an
application that wants to present a list
of CMMs to the user that are available,
so that the user can
choose a preferred CMM,
you want to use the iterateCMM info API.
This call will give you
information about all the CMMs
that are installed in the system,
including the default Apple CMM.
If your solution involves building a CMM,
there's some things you
need to be aware of.
The one key thing is that CMMs
on Mac OS X are CF bundle-based,
whereas on Mac OS X they
were component manager-based.
So you'll want to take a look at the
CFBundle documentation for information
on how to package your CMM as a CFBundle.
But for the most part,
the CMM will be very
familiar to you on Mac OS X.
Again, all your entry points that
you've supported in the past,
CMM open, CMM concat, CMM match bitmap,
will all be there.
The only difference is that instead
of having a component manager
wrapper around these entry points,
you'll have a CFBundle wrapper
around it instead.
The Apple CMM,
which we ship as part of Mac OS X,
has undergone a lot of work in order
to make sure that it is tuned and
integrated fully with the core system,
and it works fully in that environment.
And as such,
it has gone to some effort to make
sure that it handles all the various
profile types and all the different
image color spaces correctly.
What this means is that if you're
developing your own third-party CMM,
and you want it to work in
this ColorSync environment,
you need to make sure to thoroughly test
your CMM under a wide variety of cases.
Because if the user chooses
your CMM as a default CMM,
it will be used throughout
the core's imaging model.
It's a very powerful feature.
So we've had a lot of talk so far.
I want to just do a
little bit of a demo here,
just to kind of give you a
guided tour of where things and
how things live on Mac OS X.
So first of all,
I'm just started out in the
root level of the hard drive.
I want to go on my Mac OS X volume.
I can go into the library,
ColorSync directory.
And inside here,
we have the majority of the
profiles that we install.
And all of these end in .icc.
There's also a displays profiles folder,
which is where profiles that are for
actual displays are installed as well.
We also have a bunch of example scripts
for the ColorSync scripting environment.
Not be showing that much today there,
but there's a lot of power in there.
You might want to investigate those
scripts if you're an Apple scripter.
Also, if you actually want to know
where ColorSync resides,
which can be a little tricky,
you go into System Library.
Frameworks.
Let's see, where are we here?
ColorSync is a sub-framework of
the application services framework.
So you go into application
services frameworks,
and then there lies ColorSync.
And this is where you can find
the headers for your browsing.
Also, if we go back up a directory,
we can also see in the
system library path,
there's a ColorSync directory where
the minimum required set of profiles
that Apple needs are installed.
We also have plug-ins for
our scripting architecture,
or Apple scripting architecture here,
for various file types.
Also, there's a few applications
that ColorSync has installed.
One is, if you go into application,
Let's see, where's utilities?
It's always at the bottom.
There is the
Where is it?
Display Calibrator.
This is where our calibrator resides.
Currently, it's an application.
I can just launch this real quickly.
It's very similar to the
old display calibrator,
although with a slightly
more updated look to it.
And we can go through and do our
typical display calibration set.
We'll skip that today.
There's also the ColorSync
Utility application,
which in the version that
ships with Mac OS X today,
has within it the functionality
of Profile First Aid.
I'd actually kind of like to show
you a new version of ColorSync
Utility that we're working on,
which has this plus some more.
Let me launch it real quickly.
So as you can see,
one of its functionality
is Profile First Aid.
And so this is familiar.
If you've used Profile
First Aid in the past,
you can hit Verify,
and it'll go through and search
all the profiles on your disk.
Also, however, it has some new modules,
one of which is the Profiles module.
And this is sort of the
beginning of a work in progress.
But what this module does is it's
client of the CM Profile Iteration API.
So it uses the API to locate
all the profiles on the disk
and then present them to the
user in a variety of fashions.
Here we have them all
grouped by location.
So you can see system library,
ColorSync profiles, slash library,
ColorSync profiles.
We can see all the profiles.
We can see basic information
about the profiles that even
a novice can understand,
the full path,
the color space when it was created.
We can also, however, as a convenience,
group these by different things.
If you just want to, say, for example,
see where all the CMYK profiles are,
you can just check out the
CMYK profiles and look at them there.
So I'm going to show more of this later,
but now I think I'll
go back to the slides.
And actually,
this provides a good opportunity
for me to pass the microphone
over to Eric Broadben,
who will be talking about ColorSync
preferences and supporting APIs.
Thanks.
Thanks, David.
Alright, well I wanted to start out today
with a little bit of an overview.
Why are we even talking about ColorSync
preferences and supporting APIs?
Well, here's a view of an application
in classic Mac OS and how it
interacts with different parts
of the system and the user.
Applications, generally speaking,
did not have any knowledge
of devices on the system.
So applications that are doing
color management would often
want to have an idea of that,
so they would present a user
interface so that the user could
tell them what kinds of devices
they would have on their system.
and the application would get
some information about that in
order to do color management
to those devices or from them.
Similarly, applications,
if they really want to
do color management,
also sometimes need to understand
where data is coming from in
documents if there are no profiles.
So again, applications would,
as part of the user interface,
often have parts of it which would allow
the user to select a default profile for
a color space or something like that.
And this was actually very good.
We were encouraged by the fact that
applications were starting to do this
over the last few years because it meant
that they were taking color management
seriously and they were putting an
effort into their applications to
make sure that they did things right.
There was a little bit of a
problem though over time where,
as more and more applications did this,
there were slight differences
between the user interfaces and
users were becoming... A lot of
the power users were not confused,
but some of the users
were confused about,
you know, how come I have to do this
in this application and this
in this application and the
terminology is slightly different.
So the end story at that point was
that the application would simply call
ColorSync to do its color management.
We wanted to provide a better story for
both application developers and users.
So on Mac OS X, we think we have a more
intelligent way of doing this.
First of all, ColorSync is aware of
devices on Mac OS X,
which we'll see.
And secondly,
we've redesigned our user interface to
take advantage of some of this knowledge,
so some of the devices are actually
reflected in our user interface.
The user interface covers a lot of
the data points that the applications
use to try to collect from the user.
Applications can use
the APIs behind these,
which we'll talk about,
to get the preferences for profiles,
incoming default profiles
for color spaces,
and in some cases,
actual profiles for devices,
instead of guessing about them.
And then the application can go
ahead and do what it's good at
or what it was designed to do,
which is, in this case,
image manipulation or
something like that,
and then call ColorSync the same way
as before to do the color management.
So as I said,
our preference panel was redesigned.
It was introduced in ColorSync 3.0,
which shipped on Mac OS 9 first.
And it was designed to provide a single
point for users to go to to control color
in terms of profiles on their system.
Also, it allowed us to formalize some of
the concepts and terminology that are
important for users to understand,
so they really understand what
color management is about,
color devices and color spaces.
And we built it on a model that allows
for us to easily add to it in the future
in terms of providing more support
for new color spaces and new devices.
So here's a look at what the new
panel looks like on Mac OS X.
There's several panes of it,
but we're just going to talk
about the Profiles pane.
It has the first view of this is
default profiles for documents.
Documents can contain lots
of different types of data.
So an application can utilize the fact
that this is where users can set up
profiles for different color spaces
that will be contained in documents.
Now, if the data has a profile
associated with it,
then that takes precedence,
but often documents don't
have profiles in them.
And this is where the user gets to
set up their preferences for what
happens when there is no profile
associated with the color data.
The application can get access
to this preference by using the
CM/GET default profile by space API.
They pass in one of the color space
types that are defined in our headers,
and they get back a profile reference.
And this would be appropriate, obviously,
as a source profile.
It's a default profile
for the colors coming in.
The second view in the Profiles pane
is the profiles for standard devices.
Here, applications, obviously,
many of them that are doing color
management want to know where the
data is going to and need a profile
for that or where it came from if
they know that it came from a device.
ColorSync actually will reflect devices
that are installed on the user's system
into this so that users can see that.
Applications can get access to
these preferences by calling the
CMGetDefaultProfileByUse API,
passing in one of the standard
use types and again getting
back a profile reference.
Often this would be a
destination profile,
but it can still be an input profile.
I wanted to give an example of
how an application might benefit.
I wanted to give an example
of how an application might
benefit from these APIs in a
simple color management example.
I have a sample code
which would not compile,
obviously,
but my match image routine which
takes some kind of an image
reference which the application can
extract information or data from.
As I said before,
the first thing an application should do
when managing color from a document is to
find out if there is a profile embedded,
or in this case an image.
Modern image formats contain
containers for profiles,
so there are known ways to find
out if there is a profile in an
image and get it out of there.
If there is one, great.
If there is not,
well then we can go ahead and use
the API CMGetDefaultProfileBySpace.
But of course first we need to find
out what color space the image is in.
Once we complete that,
we can go ahead and get a reasonable
default source profile for that image.
Once, at that point,
we have a source profile,
we want to go ahead and
get a destination profile.
So,
let's say we're matching to the display.
We can call cmget default
profile by use display,
cmdisplay use,
and get a destination profile.
And now we have source and destination.
We can do our color management,
get the bitmap from the image,
and go ahead and match it.
Now,
there's a little bit of a caveat here.
This code sample would be
appropriate for a classic or
Carbon application running on Mac OS X.
On Mac OS X,
as you saw in Luke's presentation,
much of the destination color
management is done for you.
So, you don't really need to do
this kind of matching if your
application utilizes Quartz.
But at least what you should do is be
aware of where the data is coming from.
And if there's no profile
associated with it,
you can tag it using our... APIs.
So in summary, in terms of where
ColorSync preferences go,
all data is now color-managed on Quartz,
and your application can really be a
full player in the color management
story by simply making sure that data is
associated with a correct source profile,
and if need be, a destination profile.
Most applications can simply use
these APIs for color management
and have the knowledge that they're
getting the user's preferences.
A lot of applications will still need
to put up their own user interfaces.
We don't mean to say that the ColorSync
preference panel is the be-all,
end-all of what color management
is about on the system,
but we're hoping that a lot
of applications will simply
be able to use our preference
panel and the APIs behind it.
Again, they're extensible.
They allow us to add support for
future devices and color spaces,
and again,
they're flexible in that applications can
manage color from both a document-centric
or device-centric perspective.
Speaking of devices,
another new feature in ColorSync
on Mac OS X is device support.
And on Mac OS X, we have new kernel,
new I/O, and new device managers for
input display and printing.
And this gave us an opportunity to
integrate ColorSync with those device
managers to allow ColorSync to be aware
of actual devices and their profiles.
This is very powerful.
It was implemented with the
following services in general:
device registration,
profile registration,
the notion of defaults
for devices and profiles,
and notification services,
which we'll talk about later.
A little bit more detail on
device and profile registration.
Again, we rely on the device managers.
We built support into them for this.
They are the points on the
system that understand when
devices are attached or removed.
They also are the points on the system
that can discover profiles for printing.
There's a known way to do that.
Display, same thing.
The display manager knows how to discover
or build device profiles for the display.
Then they go ahead and use some
ColorSync APIs to tell ColorSync
about the device and its profiles.
There's register, unregister,
and there's CM set
device factory profiles.
ColorSync makes a distinction between
factory profiles and custom profiles,
and we'll talk about
that a little bit later.
In terms of defaults,
we saw that the APIs in the profiles
for standard devices and the
API reflectors give access to defaults,
not just any device profile.
And the way this works is that
when profiles are registered,
one of them is identified as
the default for that device.
Over time,
a user may change their settings.
For example, maybe initially when
installing a printer driver,
plain paper is a default setting,
and then they go ahead and change
it to glossy or something like that.
The device manager is aware
of that and tells us that the
default profile has changed.
So again,
the device managers are the place
where these changes are noticed,
and they go ahead and notify ColorSync.
And then they can use CM Set Default
Device if a default device changes,
or CM Set Device Default Profile
ID if a default profile changes.
So one of the things
that this allows for,
which we haven't had on Mac OS before,
is support for calibration.
And this is done because of the
data that we have with a profile.
Along with the profile, we get an ID,
which has to be unique per device,
a mode name,
which really means under what
conditions is this profile used,
like plain paper, glossy, transparency,
and so on.
It's not the name of the profile,
it's the name of the condition
under which the profile is used,
and actually something
that's not listed here,
but a URL for where the
profile is on the system.
And profiles are actually
referenced most of the time by ID,
so we don't bind with the URL until
late in the game when we actually
need to do the color management.
What this means is that
Those profiles can be customized by an
application that knows how to do it.
So a calibration application might go
ahead and get the factory profiles,
ask the user by putting
up a list of modes,
which mode they want to calibrate for,
do their calibration,
and then overlay by ID with a new URL,
a new profile that's on a
different place in the system.
And the printer, the print system,
or the user,
doesn't have to go and set anything else.
The calibration
application has done this.
That new profile will be used when it
comes time to do the color management.
So there are some APIs that support this.
GetDeviceFactoryProfiles, and then set,
we could have called it
setDeviceCustomProfiles,
but we just called it setDeviceProfiles
and setDeviceProfile if the calibration
application just wants to do one profile.
Up until this point,
the APIs in the device support
have pretty much been things
that just the system would call,
but at this point,
if a calibration application
wants to get involved,
it would use these APIs.
Finally, as part of our device support,
if applications want to,
they can become aware of the changes
in devices on their system that
the device managers tell us about.
ColorSync will post notifications
to a distributed center,
and by this we just mean that any process
on the system can get a notification if
it registers with a distributed center.
Some of the things you can get notified
for are changes to a default device
for a device class if the user plugs
in a new printer and sets it as their
default printer or something like that.
There's a notification for that.
Changes to factory or custom profiles,
changes to a default profile,
and registration and unregistration.
There are no ColorSync APIs for
this because we don't actually
support notification per se.
We post notifications through
the services available,
and an application needs to
register with them through
either Core Foundation or Cocoa.
So go ahead and look at those
APIs if you're interested in that.
You will need to look in the
ColorSync headers for the notification
strings that you register for.
So in summary, we've integrated on
Mac OS X with device managers.
This gives us some new features
and some new integration.
Applications have access
to default profiles simply
through our preferences APIs.
Applications can actually get
more specific profile information
if they want using some new APIs.
Calibration is supported because
of the way we register and deal
with profiles on the system.
And finally, applications can get
notified of these changes.
Speaking of which,
I believe we have a demo, David,
of an application which
will take advantage of this.
Thanks, Eric.
Okay, so switching to...
So as I left you wondering about before,
we have this Devices button in
the ColorSync Utility module.
And what this module is,
is it's a client of the
device integration API.
And what it'll do is it'll show you
a list of all the devices that have
registered profiles on this system.
And what I have here is we have
different classes of devices,
general classes, scanners, cameras,
displays, printers, proofers.
And there's one display registered.
Also, for purposes of demoing,
I've registered two cameras as well.
If we look at the--we have two cameras.
For each of these cameras,
there's two different
modes associated with it.
If I click on the indoor mode,
it will show what the
factory profile for that is,
which in this case just defaults to sRGB.
And there's also an additional
profile if it's been overridden
by the user or by a calibrator.
And there's a second
profile for that as well.
So we're going to have
different device classes,
different devices, and different modes
within a given device.
So this application is kind of nice
because it allows you in one spot
to be able to browse the list of
ColorSync-savvy devices on the system.
We can also change what
the profile is here.
If we don't have a specific calibrator,
we could create our own calibrated
profile and just associate that
profile with this device if we wish.
And it'll be used automatically.
Also, we have the display here,
which also has a profile
associated with it.
This is the profile that was generated
automatically when the system is booted.
So it's based on information
returned from the EDID.
But if I actually go into
the system control panel,
system preferences, go to displays,
and go to the color tab.
This also shows me the same profile.
So we have two different
clients of the same database,
if you want to think of it.
Now,
one other thing about this application
is it's registered that it wants to
receive notifications of any changes.
So if I go to this tab here
and change the profile to
Multiscan 17 for some reason,
you'll see that in the background,
this app has already received
that notification and
it's already been updated.
If I flip it back.
Also, if I were to go and calibrate
and go through the process
of calibrating the display,
again, this is--the profile for this
display would be changed and it
would be reflected in this database.
So this is really powerful.
It allows applications in a standardized
way to calibrate a wide variety
of devices and for the users to
get the best possible color out of
their--out of their individual devices.
Another way of kind of demonstrating
this is we have a printer we've hooked
up here that registers for profiles.
If I just go in here and plug it in, USB,
excuse me, bring this app to front and
then go to print center.
A little bit of a beach ball.
It's automatically
recognized the printer,
and as you can see, let's see,
did it register?
Oops.
Let me delete it, quit it,
and launch it again.
Sorry about that.
No, it's decided to be honorary.
This was working earlier, I swear.
Okay, well, that's a good demo without
something not working as expected.
But anyhow,
you can see we're receiving notifications
for the different devices and
they'll be registered automatically.
The real advantage of this is by having
a device that registers for profiles,
registers its profiles,
it allows a savvy user of your device
to be able to query to see that
device's profiles and also to be able
to calibrate that to be able to get the
best possible results out of that device.
So I think that's it for now.
We have a minor mystery of why it didn't
Oh, look, it's back.
I needed to relaunch.
Sorry about that.
So here we see the Stylus Color 880
coming up and registering no less than,
I believe, eight different profiles,
all slightly different
for different print modes.
I think they could be
named slightly differently,
but it's really great that they're
registering all these modes.
We can also change which one is
the default mode for this printer.
If we had multiple printers,
we could check which one
is the default printer.
All right, that's it for now.
So as always,
where to go for more information?
If you're more interested in
getting more detailed information,
you can go get information on
ColorSync from www.apple.com/colorsync
or the SDK site as well.
Also, I always make a pitch for the
ColorSync dev and ColorSync users list.
There's a lot of great
information there as well.
And feedback can be sent
to colorsync@apple.com.
and I'll pass it over to
Travis for a few more words.
Thank you, David.
I want to just quickly go through
the roadmap of the remaining
graphic sessions here at WWDC.
We have 1.13, which is text on Mac OS X,
which is very important if you're
interested in doing advanced
text drawing on X and also text
drawing in conjunction with Quartz.
We have another interesting session,
which is OpenGL High Performance 2D.
If you're looking to do some 2D
graphics and make them go very,
very fast, there's some interesting
applications of OpenGL to do that.
We also have a printing session,
which is on Thursday, which will cover
Mac OS X printing tips for Carbon,
Cocoa and also some BSD.
Then we also have on
Friday a very important talk,
if you're a Carbon developer,
where we have the graphics
and imaging tips and tricks,
where we'll go over quite
extensively issues such as
QuickDraw and Quartz integration,
in addition to talking about
the optimization of graphics in
general by working in conjunction
with Quartz Compositor.
This is the contact information.
I can be reached if you have
any questions about ColorSync.
You can reach me at travisb.apple.com.
We also have a product manager
for ColorSync technology,
who's John Zimmer.
If you have any suggestions on
how ColorSync can be improved,
feel free to email John.
He's available at johnz.apple.com.